--- 
layout: default 
published: true 
title: Syllabus 
---

<h2 style="text-align: center;"><strong>History 561</strong></h2>

<h2 style="text-align: center;">History of the Spanish Conquest</h2>

<h2 style="text-align: center;">W/5:45-8:15pm</h2>

<h2 style="text-align: center;">Spring 2017</h2>

Professor Chad Black 

Email: cblack6-at-utk.edu 

Phone: 974-9871

Office Hours: Thursdays 12:00-2:00 



> *The Discovery of America,
  and that of a passage to the East Indies by the Cape of Good Hope, are the
  two greatest and most important events in the recorded history of mankind.*
>
  -Adam Smith

In 1492, Columbus sailed the ocean blue and… discovered, or destroyed,
conquered, or civilized the Americas.  Sixty years later, in 1552, López de
Gómara, the private secretary of Hernán Cortes, wrote, “The greatest event
since the creation of the world (excluding the incarnation and death of Him who
created it) is the discovery of the Indies [i.e. Americas].”  He was, himself,
a participant the great conquest of Mexico.  From the very beginning, not only
the magnitude, but also the meaning of the Conquest of the Americas has been a
point of controversy and acclaim.  Worlds were upended. Millions of people died
through the cumulative impacts of warring, labor practices, and, maybe most
importantly, disease. Empires were torn down and reconstructed. Christendom was
vastly expanded. And, of course, tomatoes, chiles, potatoes, silver, gold,
emeralds, horses, cattle, pig, corn, and syphilis traversed the Atlantic in an
epoch of unprecedented ecological exchange. Modernity itself was forged in the
crucible of Conquest.  The readings in this class will take us on a journey
through the historiography of the Conquest, from its original Spanish and
indigenous chroniclers through current approaches. Along the way we will treat
the complexities, myths, and enduring legacies of the process of Spanish
conquest. 

Texts:  Several books have been ordered for this seminar and are available for
purchase at the UTK bookstore. All other readings will be available via the
course website. All students should give serious consideration to purchasing
James Lockhart and Stuart Schwartz’s textbook *Early Latin America*, which will
provide a general framework for understanding this period of Latin American
History.

**Required Readings** 

